when you're measuring your finger up for
a ring one way you can do it is to get a
standard set of ring gauges and then
find the one that most closely matches
your finger size then you can measure
the diameter x pi to get the
circumference and then you can use that
to measure the length of the piece of
silver you need however there's an
alternative way of doing it is a
jeweler's trick you get a piece of fine
wire this binding wire longer than you
think you're going to need you create a
loop then you put it on a ring mandrel
to make it round then you test it to see
if it's the right size for your finger
if it's too loose tighten it up
it's not loose enough then you can
loosen it a bit keep doing that tighten
it until it becomes the right size for
your finger here's the mandrel again to
make it round if you need to a little
bit tighter than that still
okay might be just a little bit tight
but I tend to find if you use this
technique then a little bit tight it's
usually good because by the time you
finish making it the ring stretched a
little bit anyway there's probably about
the size that I want okay so now I've
got a piece of wire a loop that's about
the size that I want for my ring
so now that we've got a loop of wire the
same size as we want for our ring we're
going to cut it open we'll cut it in the
middle here so if we cut it near the
twisty bit sometimes it gets a bit vague
as to where the ends of the loop are so
we get it like that cut it open
straighten it out and that shows us what
length of metal we need in order to make
this ring so what I'm going to do now is
get a piece of sheet silver and I'll
mark it up in order to cut the ring
today I'm going to make a ring using 1
mil sheet silver it's going to be 5
millimeters wide so I've just marked
five millimeters wide there and there
normally I would mark it up using a
scribe R which we scribe a line into it
or draw using pencil but the scribe
lines often know very hard to see
because the silver is quite reflective
so today I'm going to experiment using a
sharpie and instead this can come off
using methylated spirits afterwards so
I'm going to mark that part
okay sure we're certainly well and that
should be a lot easier to see than
pencil lines or scribe lines now we can
see that I've made the piece of silver
the same length as the unwrapped piece
of wire that I measured up with before
now I'm going to cut that out with a saw
and then I'll go through the rest of the
steps in turning that into a ring
I'm about to start cutting this with the
piercing saw you might notice because
I'm right-handed
I've actually marked it up on the
left-hand side of the piece of silver
the reason for this is you need to cut
along on the outside of the line rather
than the inside so it means I want to be
cutting on the outside with the line on
the left-hand side if you cut along the
line you end up narrowing your piece of
metal more than you want to but because
I'm cutting on the right hand side and
I'm right-handed it's easier to see it
if the line is to the left which is more
towards the center line so I start
cutting that in order to get the cut
started we actually run the piercing saw
backwards a little these are designed to
cut when you move the saw straight down
however to get it started we run
backwards like this a little weird get a
little knot started there
it's got a bit uh not started we can
start cutting and as soon as we've got
the cup going we start tilting the saw
back or the vertical we want to cut
vertically as much as we can with a
piercing swore to avoid particularly
when you're cutting curved shapes you
want to cut vertically to avoid having
cuts of funny angles it's not so
important when you're putting a straight
line
now these piercing blade piecing school
blades are quite a narrow and they tend
to break quite easily
okay administer avoid breaking your
blade so far I've been cutting just on
the right hand side of the line there so
far the experiment with the sharpie
seems to be working pretty well so I
think I might stick with that technique
in the future from right here meantime
I'll keep cutting master cut a fairly
straight line if you are going to waiver
a bit try to make sure that you weave to
the outside because if you cut into the
metal you're not going to be able to
fill the hole back up if you cut off to
the right the outside of the line then
you'll be able to file it smooth later
okay I've finished the cut along the
length of the ring and I've almost
finished the cut along the width I'm
just going to cut through the funnel bit
of it now so far my piercing saw blade
has managed to live throughout the
ordeal now because the bit of metal is
about to fall off I'll clamp it down
with my fingers on the other side as
well through the way through and my
piercing ball piercing saw blade lives
to fight another day so there's the
final strip of metal it's come out
pretty straight